## 2025-09-22
Wanted to learn python so I can ultimately learn more about AI. Planning to build a Rock Paper Scissors game and train to bot to become the ultimate computer when it comes to RPS. Before I get too ahead of myself, I first programmed a simple RPS game using the crude style of if's and elif's, and the random function.

## 2025-09-23
Today I wanted to be able to play multiple rounds in one game, since playing only one round is boring. I achieved this by implementing a while loop based on how many wins the user or the computer has **left** until they win. I first set the variable to 2, and after each round, the number of wins left would decrease by 1 based on who won that round. This would loop until either side has won twice, so a best of 3. I looped this via while loop, where if both sides have a non-zero number of wins left, it would continue looping; if the either side wins by 2, which causes its respective variable to decrease to 0, and would break the loop and cause the game to finish.

There were many minor problems that I encountered during this implementation that were quickly solved by just running code in my mind. An example was that I used 'or' instead of 'and' in the while loop which meant that as soon as I ran the program, it would immediately finish, but now even if I do use 'or' instead of 'and', nothing would change. Another minor problem I encountered was that the variables I was using in the while loop were unassigned, instead I was trying to assign them inside the while loop. I think the only reason I encountered this problem in the first place was because I was trying to optimmize my code while trying to build it at the same time, and so I was limiting the number of variables I was using. I solved this by just using more variables.

Another feature that I implemented was the ability to play again without running the code again. This was pretty easy since all I needed to do was wrap my existing code in a while loop, create a variable that tracks a number, if they input "yes, they do want to play again", then the variable wouldn't change; however, if they decided to not play again, it would alter the variable's number causing the loop to end. I think the reason why I was able to implement this feature so quickly and without much problem was because it was pretty similar in nature to my first implementation of the day, and so if I implemented this play again feature first instead of the best of 3, it would of been the other way round.

## 2025-09-24 Version 3
Today I watched a couple videos on machine learning, primarily the core concepts that involve math such as linear algebra, calculus, and statistics. But before I delve into these topics, I thought I would first optimize my game. The biggest implementation that I made today was adding the ability to choose how many 'best of' games you want to play. I also fixed a few bugs and optimized the code a little by reducing the number of variables I needed. I also learned that you can loop a while loop by just writing "while True"; the whole time I have been creating variables to do the same job. The great thing was that I barely used chatgpt except for asking if there were any functions that performed a specific job, like using modulus % to check if a number is odd or even, which was handy. 

However, there was one problem that I had to ask Chat for help, and that was trying to convert an user input into an integer. The reason this was so tricky was because I was trying to create a loop to check if the user input was an odd number, and by asking the user to input again if they entered an even number or a string. For example, if the user entered 3, it would be a str, so I would convert it into a int, which is fine; I would then check if it is an odd number, which it is and therefore the code will run all fine. However, if the user entered a string like 'r', I can't convert it into an int and since the first 'if' statement is to check if it is odd or not, it would end up bricking my code. I didn't want to spend too long thinking about this, I think I gave myself 30mins before asking Chat, which I ended up doing and finding out I can just use Try & Except to completely bypass the brick :D.

One other thing I want to optimize is the number of if statements I used to loop to figure out if the user won the round or not. At the very least, I want to try and figure out another method of doing this before I ask Chat.

## 2025-09-25 Version 4
Today I spent most of my time tidying up the code by adding functions to segment different sections of code that serve a slightly different purpose. I have essentially create a function for every section of my code, and I was up to my last section where it is responsible for looping the rounds. Here I realised that having too many functions is not ideal, because when I was building it, I had more than 7 different inputs, as there were functions in that function. So I ended up just leaving it as it is. I also got a bit stuck on how to optimize my code, specifically reducing the number of if statements responsible for determining who won the round. I asked chat for a hint, and inadvertantly saw the answer to it, which was using a 3x3 matrix and assigning every possible combination to a vector. I am really starting to enjoy programming; in the past when I would code, it felt like a chore but now all I want to do is code. I think tomorrow I might implement a feature where all the games are logged, that way when I start training my bot, I can have a set of data to work with.

## 2025-09-26 Version 5
Today I wanted to log the data of each game played, and so I created 2 CSV files. One CSV file tracks the overal stats of the game, like the date, who won, best out of what, and the final score of both participants. The 2nd CSV file tracks what happened each round like: number of rounds (including and excluding ties), the winner of each round, what each side picked, and the current score of both participants. I've also added in a game ID so there is a way to link all the different rounds track in a game with the overall game stats. There wasn't any major problems that I encountered today, it was mainly trying to learn all the unfamiliar functions and syntax, like how to read and write a file, using some of python's modules to manipulate CSV files aswell as getting the current time. I've searched online and I haven't found any datasets for RPS between two humans, so I might synthesize my own dataset using two bots.